In this video we'll learn about the queue.
The queue is a first in first out data structure like the stack.
The queue is an adapter class because it's implemented in terms of already existing ACL containers.
Since operations on the q happen on both ends the front and the back we can easily implement to queue
based on any container that has a front in the back.
These are the list in the deck so the queue methods use delegation and call the methods of the underlying
container.
Like stacks queues have white applications in computer science and the ACL provides a simple concise
implementation.
You can think of a queue is awaiting mine.
Elements enter on one end and are removed from the other.
As with stacks iterators really don't make sense with queues and they're not supported.
So we can't use the SPL algorithms either
in order to use the queue containers.
We must include the queue header file like the stack the queue provides a handful of methods that have
very well defined behavior.
The push method inserts an element at the back of the queue.
The pop method removes an element from the front of the queue.
The front and back methods access the front and back elements of the queue but does not remove them.
Finally we have the empty incise methods that we've seen with the other containers
since the queue is an adapter class.
We can choose what underlying container will be used.
Same thing we did with the stack in the first example.
I'm providing no information about the underlying container.
So the T.L. will use a deck by default.
You can see in the next two examples that I'm explicitly stating which underlying container to use as
the template parameter.
Now let's see how the push method works.
Suppose we have a queue of integers named Q And it's empty.
When we push 10 onto the queue we add tend to the back of the queue.
In this case the queue was empty.
So 10 is both the back and the front element in the queue.
Then when we push 20 we push it at the back of the queue.
So now 10 is at the front of the queue and 20 is at the back of the queue.
You can see the front of the queue as the shaded box in the diagrams.
The back of the queue is the other end.
We then push thirty at the back of the queue.
Once we have a queue that contains elements we can access the elements at the front and at the back
without removing them with the front and back methods.
In this example queue up front display 10 and queued up back will display 30.
Now when we pop elements from the queue they're removed from the front.
The first queued up pop removes the 10 from the front of the queue and now 20 becomes the new front
of the queue the second cue that pop removes the 20 from the front of the queue and now 30 becomes the
new front of the queue.
If we call the size method for the queue here display one since there's one element in the queue as
you can see the queue is really a very simple data structure.
But like the stack it's used extensively in computer science to solve many types of problems.
So let's head over to the IEEE and we'll see some examples.
Ok so I'm back in the IDM in the Section 20 workspace and I'm in the queue project and I just like to
stack the queue is really really simple.
So let's go over some of these examples.
First thing you'll see is I've already got the run over here on the right and I'll discuss that in just
a second.
First thing you'll see is I've got this template function that displays the queue very similar to what
we did with the stack.
In this case I'm passing by value because I don't want to reference to the real Q And I don't want to
destroy it.
So this is going to make a copy of the qued that's passed in and that's the one I'm going to process.
So how do I display this.
Well while the queue is not empty I'm going to get the element from the front.
Remember with the queue we push on the back and we pop from the front.
So this is first in first out.
That's the second waiting line.
Somebody gets in at the back of the line.
They come off in the front of the line so I'm getting the element from the front.
I'm removing it from the queue I'm displaying it.
That's it.
Really really simple.
OK so let's talk about the main again there's only one test here right in my main.
First thing I'm doing is I'm creating a queue right here and it's a queue of integers.
Again this could be just about any time and I'm pushing one two three four and five onto the queue.
Now remember I'm pushing at the back.
So when I push one I'm pushing it at the back then two and three and four than five I displayed the
cue and this is what I'm getting right here.
Now what's different what's the back.
Let's be sure that we understand what's going on here.
We can say cued up front cued up back and you can see that the front here is the one.
Makes sense right it's the first one that I pushed on first customer in line is the first customer out
of the line.
So that's the front the back is the five.
Now I want to push a hundred onto the back of the queue and display the queue again.
And you can see the output right here you can see the 100 here is at the back of the queue.
I want to pop two elements from the front of the queue.
So what happens is the one in the two get removed from the front and they're gone.
So now what's left is three four five and a hundred three is at the front.
One hundred is at the back.
If I want to remove everything from the queue I need to use some sort of loop like this we can't use
iterators with the cues.
So while the queue is not empty pop the front element out of there.
And when I'm done it'll be empty and I display the queue and I will get an empty queue just like you
see right there.
When I display the size of that Q I'm right here in 9:42 I will get a zero because it's empty right
now and let me just clear this and I'll scroll up and there's a few more lines not too many.
So right here we're on line forty four I've got an empty queue at this point.
I just printed out the size right here.
So going to push 10 one hundred and then a thousand onto the queue and display the queue.
There you go you can see tennis at the front.
1 0 0 0 0 is at the back and you can see that.
That being displayed right here tennis at the front 1000 is at the back.
Now I have access to the front in the back the front method and the back method return references.
So if I wanted to change the front or change the back I can.
So in this case I'm setting whatever element it is different to five.
And at the back to 5 0 0 0 0.
You can see them change right there right there were 10.
Now it's 5 1 0 0 0 0 and now it's 5000 and you can see again that the front of the cue is the five in
the back of the cue is the 5000.
So that's it in a nutshell that's the cue.
So remember this is first in first out as opposed to the stack which was the last in first out and there's
uses for all of these.
First in first out cues are used all the time for scheduling job scheduling tasks scheduling and operating
systems.
Stacks are used a lot in compiling.
There used a lot to solve problems where you have to calculate expressions and you have to figure out
how many parentheses are there.
Do they balance and things like that.
Okay so that's it in the next video what we'll do is we'll do a challenge that's going to use stacks
and Qs and you remember that palindrome example we did a while back with a deck.
We're going to do the same thing except we're going to use a stack and a Q to solve it.